In demographics, the world population is the total number of humans currently living.
The world population was estimated to have reached 7.6 billion as of October 2017 .
The United Nations estimates it will further increase to 11.2 billion by the year 2100.
World population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine of 131517 and the Black Death in 1350, when it was near 370 million.
The highest population growth rates  global population increases above 1.8% per year  occurred between 1955-1975 peaking to 2.06% between 1965-1970.
The growth rate has declined to 1.18% between 2010-2015 and is projected to decline to 0.13% by the year 2100.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 139 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 135 million, while deaths number 56 million per year and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
World population reached 7 billion on October 31, 2011 according to the United Nations Population Fund, and on March 12, 2012 according to the United States Census Bureau.
The median age of the world's population was estimated to be 30.1 years in 2016, with the male median age estimated to be 29.4 years and female, 30.9 years.
The 2012 UN projections show a continued increase in population in the near future with a steady decline in population growth rate; the global population is expected to reach between 8.3 and 10.9 billion by 2050.
2003 UN Population Division population projections for the year 2150 range between 3.2 and 24.8 billion.
One of many independent mathematical models supports the lower estimate, while a 2014 estimate forecasts between 9.3 and 12.6 billion in 2100, and continued growth thereafter.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, highlighting the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Estimates on the total number of humans who have ever lived range in the order of 106 to 108 billion.A politician (from "politics" + "-ian", from the Greek title of Aristotle's book  "Politika", meaning "Civic Affairs") is a person active in party politics, or a person holding or seeking office in government.
In democratic countries, politicians seek elective positions within a government through elections or, at times, temporary appointment to replace politicians who have died, resigned or have been otherwise removed from office.
In non-democratic countries, they employ other means of reaching power through appointment, bribery, revolutions and intrigues.
Some politicians are experienced in the art or science of government.
Politicians propose, support and create laws or policies that govern the land and, by extension, its people.
Broadly speaking, a "politician" can be anyone who seeks to achieve political power in any bureaucratic institution.
A Christian (  or ) is a person who follows or adheres to Christianity, an Abrahamic, monotheistic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus Christ.
"Christian" derives from the Koine Greek word Christs (), a translation of the Biblical Hebrew term mashiach.
While there are diverse interpretations of Christianity which sometimes conflict, they are united in believing that Jesus has a unique significance.
The term "Christian" is also used as an adjective to describe anything associated with Christianity, or in a proverbial sense "all that is noble, and good, and Christ-like."
According to a 2011 Pew Research Center survey, there were 2.2 billion Christians around the world in 2010, up from about 600 million in 1910.
By 2050, the Christian population is expected to exceed 3 billion.
According to a 2012 Pew Research Center survey Christianity will remain the world's largest religion in 2050, if current trends continue.
Today, about 37% of all Christians live in the Americas, about 26% live in Europe, 24% live in sub-Saharan Africa, about 13% live in Asia and the Pacific, and 1% live in the Middle east and North Africa.
About half of all Christians worldwide are Catholic, while more than a third are Protestant (37%).
Orthodox communions comprise 12% of the world's Christians.
Other Christian groups make up the remainder.
Christians make up the majority of the population in 158 countries and territories.
280 million Christian live as a minority.
Christians have significantly influenced and contributed to human progress in many fields including philanthropy, philosophy, ethics, literature, business and economics, fine arts and architecture, music, theatre and medicine, as well as science and technology, both historically and in modern times.
The Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon (Latin: Pauperes commilitones Christi Templique Salomonici), also known as the Order of Solomon's Temple (French: Ordre du Temple or Templiers), the Knights Templar or simply as Templars, was a Catholic military order recognised in 1139 by papal bull Omne Datum Optimum of the Holy See.
The order was founded in 1119 and active from about 1129 to 1312.
The order, which was among the wealthiest and most powerful, became a favoured charity throughout Christendom and grew rapidly in membership and power.
They were prominent in Christian finance.
Templar knights, in their distinctive white mantles with a red cross, were among the most skilled fighting units of the Crusades.
Non-combatant members of the order managed a large economic infrastructure throughout Christendom, developing innovative financial techniques that were an early form of banking, and building fortifications across Europe and the Holy Land.
The Templars were closely tied to the Crusades; when the Holy Land was lost, support for the order faded.
Rumours about the Templars' secret initiation ceremony created distrust, and King Philip IV of France  deeply in debt to the order  took advantage of the situation to gain control over them.
In 1307, he had many of the order's members in France arrested, tortured into giving false confessions, and burned at the stake.
Pope Clement V disbanded the order in 1312 under pressure from King Philip.
The abrupt reduction in power of a significant group in European society gave rise to speculation, legend, and legacy through the ages.
The appropriation of their name by later organizations has kept the name "Templar" alive to the present day, while helping to obscure its origin.Elon Reeve Musk (; born June 28, 1971) is a South African-born Canadian American business magnate, investor, engineer, and inventor.
Musk is the founder, CEO, and CTO of SpaceX; a co-founder, a Series A investor, CEO, and product architect of Tesla Inc.; co-chairman of OpenAI; founder and CEO of Neuralink.
He was previously co-founder and chairman of SolarCity; co-founder of Zip2; and founder of X.com, which merged with Confinity and took the name PayPal.
As of March 2017, he has an estimated net worth of $13.9 billion, making him the 80th-wealthiest person in the world.
In December 2016, Musk was ranked 21st on the Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People.
Musk has stated that the goals of SolarCity, Tesla, and SpaceX revolve around his vision to change the world and humanity.
His goals include reducing global warming through sustainable energy production and consumption, and reducing the "risk of human extinction" by "making life multiplanetary" by establishing a human colony on Mars.
In addition to his primary business pursuits, he has also envisioned a high-speed transportation system known as the Hyperloop, and has proposed a VTOL supersonic jet aircraft with electric fan propulsion, known as the Musk electric jet.
Musk also proposed the concept of The Boring Company in 2017.Bowing (also called stooping) is the act of lowering the torso and head as a social gesture in direction to another person or symbol.
It is most prominent in Asian cultures but it is also typical of nobility and aristocracy in many countries and distinctively in Europe.
It is also used in religious contexts, as a form of worship or veneration.
Sometimes the gesture may be limited to lowering the head such as in Indonesia, and in many cultures several degrees of the lowness of the bow are distinguished and regarded as appropriate for different circumstances.
It is especially prominent in India, Thailand, Laos, China, Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and Vietnam where it may be executed standing or kneeling.
Some bows are performed equally by two or more people while others are unequal - the person bowed to either does not bow in return or performs a less low bow in response.
A nod of the head may be regarded as the minimal form of bow; forms of kneeling, genuflection, or prostration which involves the hands or whole body touching the ground, are the next levels of gesture.Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.
(also known simply as Turner) is an American media conglomerate that is a division of Time Warner and manages the collection of cable television networks and properties initiated or acquired by Ted Turner.
The company was founded in 1970, and merged with Time Warner on October 10, 1996.
It now operates as a semi-autonomous unit of Time Warner.
The company's assets include CNN, HLN, TBS, TNT, Turner Classic Movies, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim, Boomerang and TruTV.
The company's current chairman and CEO is John K. Martin.
The headquarters of Turner's properties are located in both the CNN Center in Downtown Atlanta and the Turner Broadcasting campus off Techwood Drive in Midtown Atlanta, which also houses Turner Studios.
Across Interstate 75/85 from the Techwood campus is the original home of Turner's WTBS superstation (now separated into its TBS cable network and Peachtree TV), which today houses the headquarters of Adult Swim and Williams Street Productions.The New World Order or NWO is claimed to be an emerging clandestine totalitarian world government by various conspiracy theories.
The common theme in conspiracy theories about a New World Order is that a secretive power elite with a globalist agenda is conspiring to eventually rule the world through an authoritarian world governmentwhich will replace sovereign nation-statesand an all-encompassing propaganda whose ideology hails the establishment of the New World Order as the culmination of history's progress.
Many influential historical and contemporary figures have therefore been purported to be part of a cabal that operates through many front organizations to orchestrate significant political and financial events, ranging from causing systemic crises to pushing through controversial policies, at both national and international levels, as steps in an ongoing plot to achieve world domination.
Before the early 1990s, New World Order conspiracism was limited to two American countercultures, primarily the militantly anti-government right and secondarily that part of fundamentalist Christianity concerned with the end-time emergence of the Antichrist.
Skeptics such as Michael Barkun and Chip Berlet observed that right-wing populist conspiracy theories about a New World Order had not only been embraced by many seekers of stigmatized knowledge but had seeped into popular culture, thereby inaugurating a period during the late 20th and early 21st centuries in the United States where people are actively preparing for apocalyptic millenarian scenarios.
Those political scientists are concerned that mass hysteria over New World Order conspiracy theories could eventually have devastating effects on American political life, ranging from escalating lone-wolf terrorism to the rise to power of authoritarian ultranationalist demagogues.The term "new world order" has been used to refer to any new period of history evidencing a dramatic change in world political thought and the balance of power.
Despite various interpretations of this term, it is primarily associated with the ideological notion of global governance only in the sense of new collective efforts to identify, understand, or address worldwide problems that go beyond the capacity of individual nation-states to solve.
One of the first and most well-known Western uses of the term was in Woodrow Wilson's Fourteen Points, and in a call for a League of Nations following the devastation of World War I.
The phrase was used sparingly at the end of World War II when describing the plans for the United Nations and the Bretton Woods system, and partly because of its negative associations with the failed League of Nations.
However, many commentators have applied the term retroactively to the order put in place by the World War II victors as a "new world order."
The most widely discussed application of the phrase of recent times came at the end of the Cold War.
Presidents Mikhail Gorbachev and George H. W. Bush used the term to try to define the nature of the post Cold War era, and the spirit of great power cooperation that they hoped might materialize.
Gorbachev's initial formulation was wide-ranging and idealistic, but his ability to press for it was severely limited by the internal crisis of the Soviet system.
Bush's vision was, in comparison, not less circumscribed: A hundred generations have searched for this elusive path to peace, while a thousand wars raged across the span of human endeavor.
Today that new world is struggling to be born, a world quite different from the one we've known. However, given the new unipolar status of the United States, Bush's vision was realistic: "...there is no substitute for American leadership." The Gulf War of 1991 was regarded as the first test of the new world order: "Now, we can see a new world coming into view.
A world in which there is the very real prospect of a new world order.
The Gulf war put this new world to its first test..."The Federal Reserve System (also known as the Federal Reserve or simply the Fed) is the central banking system of the United States.
It was created on December 23, 1913, with the enactment of the Federal Reserve Act, after a series of financial panics (particularly the panic of 1907) led to the desire for central control of the monetary system in order to alleviate financial crises.
Over the years, events such as the Great Depression in the 1930s and the Great Recession during the 2000s, have led to the expansion of the roles and responsibilities of the Federal Reserve System.
The U.S. Congress established three key objectives for monetary policy in the Federal Reserve Act: maximizing employment, stabilizing prices, and moderating long-term interest rates.
The first two objectives are sometimes referred to as the Federal Reserve's dual mandate.
Its duties have expanded over the years, and as of 2009 also include supervising and regulating banks, maintaining the stability of the financial system and providing financial services to depository institutions, the U.S. government, and foreign official institutions.
The Fed conducts research into the economy and provides numerous publications, such as the Beige Book and the FRED database.
The Federal Reserve System is composed of several layers.
It is governed by the presidentially appointed Board of Governors or Federal Reserve Board (FRB).
Twelve regional Federal Reserve Banks, located in cities throughout the nation, oversee the privately owned U.S. member banks.
Nationally chartered commercial banks are required to hold stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of their region, which entitles them to elect some of their board members.
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) sets monetary policy; it consists of all seven members of the Board of Governors and the twelve regional bank presidents, though only five bank presidents vote at any given time: the president of the New York Fed and four others who rotate through one-year terms.
There are also various advisory councils.
Thus, the Federal Reserve System has both public and private components.
The structure is considered unique among central banks.
It is also unusual in that the United States Department of the Treasury, an entity outside of the central bank, prints the currency used.
Although an instrument of the U.S. Government, the Federal Reserve System considers itself "an independent central bank because its monetary policy decisions do not have to be approved by the President or anyone else in the executive or legislative branches of government, it does not receive funding appropriated by the Congress, and the terms of the members of the Board of Governors span multiple presidential and congressional terms." The federal government sets the salaries of the board's seven governors.
The federal government receives all the system's annual profits, after a statutory dividend of 6% on member banks' capital investment is paid, and an account surplus is maintained.
In 2015, the Federal Reserve made a profit of $100.2 billion and transferred $97.7 billion to the U.S. Treasury.
The Illuminati (plural of Latin illuminatus, "enlightened") is a name given to several groups, both real and fictitious.
Historically, the name usually refers to the Bavarian Illuminati, an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on 1 May 1776.
The society's goals were to oppose superstition, obscurantism, religious influence over public life, and abuses of state power.
"The order of the day," they wrote in their general statutes, "is to put an end to the machinations of the purveyors of injustice, to control them without dominating them".
The Illuminatialong with Freemasonry and other secret societieswere outlawed through edict, by the Bavarian ruler, Charles Theodore, with the encouragement of the Roman Catholic Church, in 1784, 1785, 1787 and 1790.
In the several years following, the group was vilified by conservative and religious critics who claimed that they continued underground and were responsible for the French Revolution.
Many influential intellectuals and progressive politicians counted themselves as members, including Ferdinand of Brunswick and the diplomat Xavier von Zwack, who was the Order's second-in-command.
It attracted literary men such as Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Johann Gottfried Herder and the reigning dukes of Gotha and Weimar.
In subsequent use, "Illuminati" refers to various organisations which claim or are purported to have links to the original Bavarian Illuminati or similar secret societies, though these links are unsubstantiated.
They are often alleged to conspire to control world affairs, by masterminding events and planting agents in government and corporations, in order to gain political power and influence and to establish a New World Order.
Central to some of the most widely known and elaborate conspiracy theories, the Illuminati have been depicted as lurking in the shadows and pulling the strings and levers of power in dozens of novels, films, television shows, comics, video games, and music videos.A nuclear weapon is an explosive device that derives its destructive force from nuclear reactions, either fission (fission bomb) or from a combination of fission and fusion reactions (thermonuclear bomb).
Both bomb types release large quantities of energy from relatively small amounts of matter.
The first test of a fission ("atomic") bomb released an amount of energy approximately equal to 20,000 tons of TNT (84 TJ).
The first thermonuclear ("hydrogen") bomb test released energy approximately equal to 10 million tons of TNT (42 PJ).
A thermonuclear weapon weighing little more than 2,400 pounds (1,100 kg) can release energy equal to more than 1.2 million tons of TNT (5.0 PJ).
A nuclear device no larger than traditional bombs can devastate an entire city by blast, fire, and radiation.
Since they are weapons of mass destruction, the proliferation of nuclear weapons is a focus of international relations policy.
Nuclear weapons have been used twice in war, both times by the United States against Japan near the end of World War II.
On August 6, 1945, the U.S. Army Air Forces detonated a uranium gun-type fission bomb nicknamed "Little Boy" over the Japanese city of Hiroshima; three days later, on August 9, the U.S.
Army Air Forces detonated a plutonium implosion-type fission bomb nicknamed "Fat Man" over the Japanese city of Nagasaki.
These bombings resulted in the deaths of approximately 200,000 civilians and military personnel from injuries sustained from the explosions.
The ethics of these bombings and their role in Japan's surrender are subjects of debate.
Since the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, nuclear weapons have been detonated over two thousand times for testing and demonstration.
Only a few nations possess such weapons or are suspected of seeking them.
The only countries known to have detonated nuclear weaponsand acknowledge possessing themare (chronologically by date of first test) the United States, the Soviet Union (succeeded as a nuclear power by Russia), the United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan, and North Korea.
Israel is believed to possess nuclear weapons, though, in a policy of deliberate ambiguity, it does not acknowledge having them.
Germany, Italy, Turkey, Belgium and the Netherlands are nuclear weapons sharing states.
South Africa is the only country to have independently developed and then renounced and dismantled its nuclear weapons.
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons aims to reduce the spread of nuclear weapons, but its effectiveness has been questioned, and political tensions remained high in the 1970s and 1980s.
Modernisation of weapons continues to this day.A weapon of mass destruction (WMD) is a nuclear, radiological, chemical, biological or other weapon that can kill and bring significant harm to a large number of humans or cause great damage to human-made structures (e.g., buildings), natural structures (e.g., mountains), or the biosphere.
The scope and usage of the term has evolved and been disputed, often signifying more politically than technically.
Originally coined in reference to aerial bombing with chemical explosives, since World War II it has come to refer to large-scale weaponry of other technologies, such as chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear.Biological warfare (BW)also known as germ warfareis the use of biological toxins or infectious agents such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi with the intent to kill or incapacitate humans, animals or plants as an act of war.
Biological weapons (often termed "bio-weapons", "biological threat agents", or "bio-agents") are living organisms or replicating entities (viruses, which are not universally considered "alive") that reproduce or replicate within their host victims.
Entomological (insect) warfare is also considered a type of biological weapon.
This type of warfare is distinct from nuclear warfare and chemical warfare, which together with biological warfare make up NBC, the military acronym for nuclear, biological, and chemical warfare using weapons of mass destruction (WMDs).
None of these are conventional weapons, which are deployed primarily for their explosive, kinetic, or incendiary potential.
Biological weapons may be employed in various ways to gain a strategic or tactical advantage over the enemy, either by threats or by actual deployments.
Like some of the chemical weapons, biological weapons may also be useful as area denial weapons.
These agents may be lethal or non-lethal, and may be targeted against a single individual, a group of people, or even an entire population.
They may be developed, acquired, stockpiled or deployed by nation states or by non-national groups.
In the latter case, or if a nation-state uses it clandestinely, it may also be considered bioterrorism.
There is an overlap between biological warfare and chemical warfare, as the use of toxins produced by living organisms is considered under the provisions of both the Biological Weapons Convention and the Chemical Weapons Convention.
Toxins and psychochemical weapons are often referred to as midspectrum agents.
Unlike bioweapons, these midspectrum agents do not reproduce in their host and are typically characterized by shorter incubation periods.
The use of biological weapons is prohibited under customary international humanitarian law, as well as a variety of international treaties.
The use of biological agents in armed conflict is a war crime.The Vietnam War (Vietnamese: Chin tranh Vit Nam), also known as the Second Indochina War, and known in Vietnam as the Resistance War Against America (Vietnamese: Khng chin chng M) or simply the American War, was a war that occurred in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975.
It was the second of the Indochina Wars and was officially fought between North Vietnam and the government of South Vietnam.
The North Vietnamese army was supported by the Soviet Union, China and other communist allies and the South Vietnamese army was supported by the United States, South Korea, Australia, Thailand and other anti-communist allies.
The war is therefore considered a Cold War-era proxy war.
The Viet Cong (also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF), a South Vietnamese communist common front aided by the North, fought a guerrilla war against anti-communist forces in the region, while the People's Army of Vietnam, also known as the North Vietnamese Army (NVA), engaged in more conventional warfare, at times committing large units to battle.
As the war continued, the military actions of the Viet Cong decreased as the role and engagement of the NVA grew.
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search and destroy operations, involving ground forces, artillery, and airstrikes.
In the course of the war, the U.S. conducted a large-scale strategic bombing campaign against North Vietnam.
The North Vietnamese government and the Viet Cong were fighting to reunify Vietnam.
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war and a continuation of the First Indochina War against forces from France and later on the United States.
The U.S. government viewed its involvement in the war as a way to prevent a communist takeover of South Vietnam.
This was part of the domino theory of a wider containment policy, with the stated aim of stopping the spread of communism.
Beginning in 1950, American military advisors arrived in what was then French Indochina.
Most of the funding for the French war effort was provided by the U.S.
U.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s, with troop levels tripling in 1961 and again in 1962.
U.S. involvement escalated further following the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin incident, in which a U.S.
destroyer clashed with North Vietnamese fast attack craft, which was followed by the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, which gave the U.S.
president authorization to increase U.S.
military presence.
Regular U.S.
combat units were deployed beginning in 1965.
Operations crossed international borders: bordering areas of Laos and Cambodia were heavily bombed by U.S.
forces as American involvement in the war peaked in 1968, the same year that the communist side launched the Tet Offensive.
The Tet Offensive failed in its goal of overthrowing the South Vietnamese government, but became the turning point in the war, as it persuaded a large segment of the U.S.
population that its government's claims of progress toward winning the war were illusory despite many years of massive U.S.
military aid to South Vietnam.
Gradual withdrawal of U.S. ground forces began as part of "Vietnamization", which aimed to end American involvement in the war while transferring the task of fighting the communists to the South Vietnamese themselves.
Despite the Paris Peace Accord, which was signed by all parties in January 1973, the fighting continued.
In the U.S. and the Western world, a large anti-Vietnam War movement developed as part of a larger counterculture.
The war changed the dynamics between the Eastern and Western Blocs, and altered NorthSouth relations.
Direct U.S. military involvement ended on 15 August 1973.
The capture of Saigon by the North Vietnamese Army in April 1975 marked the end of the war, and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year.
The war exacted a huge human cost in terms of fatalities (see Vietnam War casualties).
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese soldiers and civilians killed vary from 966,000 to 3.8 million.
Some 240,000300,000 Cambodians, 20,00062,000 Laotians, and 58,220 U.S.
service members also died in the conflict, and a further 1,626 remain missing in action.World War I (WWI or WW1), also known as the First World War, the Great War, or the War to End All Wars, was a global war originating in Europe that lasted from 28 July 1914 to 11 November 1918.
More than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
Over nine million combatants and seven million civilians died as a result of the war (including the victims of a number of genocides), a casualty rate exacerbated by the belligerents' technological and industrial sophistication, and the tactical stalemate caused by gruelling trench warfare.
It was one of the deadliest conflicts in history, and paved the way for major political changes, including revolutions in many of the nations involved.
Unresolved rivalries still extant at the end of the conflict contributed to the start of the Second World War only twenty-one years later.
The war drew in all the world's economic great powers, assembled in two opposing alliances: the Allies (based on the Triple Entente of the Russian Empire, the French Third Republic, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland) versus the Central Powers of Germany and Austria-Hungary.
Although Italy was a member of the Triple Alliance alongside Germany and Austria-Hungary, it did not join the Central Powers, as Austria-Hungary had taken the offensive against the terms of the alliance.
These alliances were reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war: Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, while the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria joined the Central Powers.
The trigger for the war was the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo on 28 June 1914.
This set off a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia, and entangled international alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July the Austro-Hungarians declared war on Serbia and on the next day Russia declared a partial mobilization, followed by a general mobilization on 30 July.
Germany presented an ultimatum to Russia to demobilise, and when this was refused, declared war on Russia on 1 August.
Being outnumbered on the Eastern Front, Russia urged its Triple Entente ally France to open up a second front in the west.
Over forty years earlier in 1870, the Franco-Prussian War had ended the Second French Empire and France had ceded the provinces of Alsace-Lorraine to a unified Germany.
Bitterness over that defeat and the determination to retake Alsace-Lorraine made the acceptance of Russia's plea for help an easy choice, so France began full mobilisation on 1 August and, on 3 August, Germany declared war on France.
The border between France and Germany was heavily fortified on both sides so, according to the Schlieffen Plan, Germany then invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg before moving towards France from the north, leading the United Kingdom to declare war on Germany on 4 August due to their violation of Belgian neutrality.
After the German march on Paris was halted in the Battle of the Marne, what became known as the Western Front settled into a battle of attrition, with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army led a successful campaign against the Austro-Hungarians, but the Germans stopped its invasion of East Prussia in the battles of Tannenberg and the Masurian Lakes.
In November 1914, the Ottoman Empire joined the Central Powers, opening fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
In 1915, Italy joined the Allies and Bulgaria joined the Central Powers; Romania joined the Allies in 1916, as did the United States in 1917.
The Russian government collapsed in March 1917, and a revolution in November followed by a further military defeat brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers via the Treaty of Brest Litovsk, which granted the Germans a significant victory.
After a stunning German offensive along the Western Front in the spring of 1918, the Allies rallied and drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives.
On 4 November 1918, the Austro-Hungarian empire agreed to an armistice, and Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918, ending the war in victory for the Allies.
By the end of the war or soon after, the German Empire, Russian Empire, Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Ottoman Empire ceased to exist.
National borders were redrawn, with several independent nations restored or created, and Germany's colonies were parceled out among the victors.
During the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, the Big Four (Britain, France, the United States and Italy) imposed their terms in a series of treaties.
The League of Nations was formed with the aim of preventing any repetition of such a conflict.
This effort failed, and economic depression, renewed nationalism, weakened successor states, and feelings of humiliation (particularly in Germany) eventually contributed to the start of World War II.A spacecraft is a vehicle, or machine designed to fly in outer space.
Spacecraft are used for a variety of purposes, including communications, earth observation, meteorology, navigation, space colonization, planetary exploration, and transportation of humans and cargo.
On a sub-orbital spaceflight, a spacecraft enters space and then returns to the surface, without having gone into an orbit.
For orbital spaceflights, spacecraft enter closed orbits around the Earth or around other celestial bodies.
Spacecraft used for human spaceflight carry people on board as crew or passengers from start or on orbit (space stations) only, whereas those used for robotic space missions operate either autonomously or telerobotically.
Robotic spacecraft used to support scientific research are space probes.
Robotic spacecraft that remain in orbit around a planetary body are artificial satellites.
Only a handful of interstellar probes, such as Pioneer 10 and 11, Voyager 1 and 2, and New Horizons, are on trajectories that leave the Solar System.
Orbital spacecraft may be recoverable or not.
By method of reentry to Earth they may be divided in non-winged space capsules and winged spaceplanes.
Humanity has achieved space flight but only a few nations have the technology for orbital launches, including: Russia (RSA or "Roscosmos"), the United States (NASA), the member states of the European Space Agency (ESA), Japan (JAXA), Iran (ISA), India (ISRO), and China (CNSA).The IranIraq War was an armed conflict between Iran and Iraq lasting from 22 September 1980, when Iraq invaded Iran, to August 1988.
The war followed a long history of border disputes, and was motivated by fears that the Iranian Revolution in 1979 would inspire insurgency among Iraq's Shi'ite majority, as well as Iraq's desire to replace Iran as the dominant Persian Gulf state.
Iraq planned to annex the oil-rich Khuzestan Province and the east bank of the Shatt al-Arab (Arvand Rud).
Although Iraq hoped to take advantage of Iran's revolutionary chaos and attacked without formal warning, it made only limited progress into Iran and was quickly repelled; Iran regained virtually all lost territory by June 1982.
For the next six years, Iran was on the offensive.
The conflict has been compared to World War I in terms of the tactics used, including large-scale trench warfare with barbed wire stretched across trenches, manned machine gun posts, bayonet charges, "human wave attacks," extensive use of chemical weapons by Iraq, and later deliberate attacks on civilian targets.
The world powers United States and the Soviet Union, together with France and most Arab countries provided support for Iraq, while Iran as a Persian country was largely isolated.
After eight years of war, war-weariness, lack of international sympathy as Iraq was targeting Iranian civilians with weapons of mass destruction, and increasing direct military tension between Iran and the United States eventually led to a UN-brokered ceasefire.
Half a million Iraqi and Iranian soldiers, with an equivalent number of civilians, are believed to have died, with many more injured; however, the war brought neither reparations nor changes in borders.
A number of proxy forces participated in the war, most notably the Iranian People's Mujahedin of Iran siding with Ba'athist Iraq and Iraqi Kurdish militias of the Kurdistan Democratic Party and Patriotic Union of Kurdistan siding with Iranall suffering a major blow by the end of the conflict.
In an effort to recoup following damage caused by the war, Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, only to be repulsed by a US-led coalition in the Persian Gulf War.World War II (often abbreviated to WWII or WW2), also known as the Second World War, was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945, although related conflicts began earlier.
It involved the vast majority of the world's countriesincluding all of the great powerseventually forming two opposing military alliances: the Allies and the Axis.
It was the most widespread war in history, and directly involved more than 100 million people from over 30 countries.
In a state of total war, the major participants threw their entire economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities behind the war effort, erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources.
World War II was the deadliest conflict in human history, marked by 50 million to 85 million fatalities, most of which were civilians in the Soviet Union and China.
It included massacres, the deliberate genocide of the Holocaust, strategic bombing, starvation, disease and the first use of nuclear weapons in history.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate Asia and the Pacific and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937, but the world war is generally said to have begun on 1 September 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Nazi Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and the United Kingdom.
Supplied by the Soviet Union, from late 1939 to early 1941, in a series of campaigns and treaties, Germany conquered or controlled much of continental Europe, and formed the Axis alliance with Italy and Japan.
Under the MolotovRibbentrop Pact of August 1939, Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories of their European neighbours, Poland, Finland, Romania and the Baltic states.
The war continued primarily between the European Axis powers and the coalition of the United Kingdom and the British Commonwealth, with campaigns including the North Africa and East Africa campaigns, the aerial Battle of Britain, the Blitz bombing campaign, the Balkan Campaign as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
On 22 June 1941, the European Axis powers launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, opening the largest land theatre of war in history, which trapped the major part of the Axis military forces into a war of attrition.
In December 1941, Japan attacked the United States and European colonies in the Pacific Ocean, and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific.
The Axis advance halted in 1942 when Japan lost the critical Battle of Midway, and Germany and Italy were defeated in North Africa and then, decisively, at Stalingrad in the Soviet Union.
In 1943, with a series of German defeats on the Eastern Front, the Allied invasion of Sicily and the Allied invasion of Italy which brought about Italian surrender, and Allied victories in the Pacific, the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts.
In 1944, the Western Allies invaded German-occupied France, while the Soviet Union regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies.
During 1944 and 1945 the Japanese suffered major reverses in mainland Asia in South Central China and Burma, while the Allies crippled the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands.
The war in Europe concluded with an invasion of Germany by the Western Allies and the Soviet Union, culminating in the capture of Berlin by Soviet troops, the suicide of Adolf Hitler and the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945 and the refusal of Japan to surrender under its terms, the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki on 6 August and 9 August respectively.
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent, the possibility of additional atomic bombings and the Soviet invasion of Manchuria, Japan formally surrendered on 2 September 1945.
Thus ended the war in Asia, cementing the total victory of the Allies.
World War II altered the political alignment and social structure of the world.
The United Nations (UN) was established to foster international co-operation and prevent future conflicts.
The victorious great powersChina, France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United Statesbecame the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage for the Cold War, which lasted for the next 46 years.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great powers waned, while the decolonisation of Africa and Asia began.
Most countries whose industries had been damaged moved towards economic recovery.
Political integration, especially in Europe, emerged as an effort to end pre-war enmities and to create a common identity.The World Bank is an international financial institution that provides loans to countries of the world for capital programs.
It comprises two institutions: the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), and the International Development Association (IDA).
The World Bank is a component of the World Bank Group.
The World Bank's stated official goal is the reduction of poverty.
However, according to its Articles of Agreement, all its decisions must be guided by a commitment to the promotion of foreign investment and international trade and to the facilitation of capital investment.The Monroe Doctrine was a United States policy of opposing European colonialism in The Americas beginning in 1823.
It stated that further efforts by European nations to take control of any independent state in North or South America would be viewed as "the manifestation of an unfriendly disposition toward the United States." At the same time, the doctrine noted that the U.S.
would recognize and not interfere with existing European colonies nor meddle in the internal concerns of European countries.
The Doctrine was issued on December 2, 1823 at a time when nearly all Latin American colonies of Spain and Portugal had achieved or were at the point of gaining independence from the Portuguese and Spanish Empires.
President James Monroe first stated the doctrine during his seventh annual State of the Union Address to Congress.
The term "Monroe Doctrine" itself was coined in 1850.
By the end of the 19th century, Monroe's declaration was seen as a defining moment in the foreign policy of the United States and one of its longest-standing tenets.
It would be invoked by many U.S. statesmen and several U.S. presidents, including Ulysses S. Grant, Theodore Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, and Ronald Reagan.
The intent and impact of the Monroe Doctrine persisted with only minor variations for more than a century.
Its stated objective was to free the newly independent colonies of Latin America from European intervention and avoid situations which could make the New World a battleground for the Old World powers, so that the U.S. could exert its own influence undisturbed.
The doctrine asserted that the New World and the Old World were to remain distinctly separate spheres of influence, for they were composed of entirely separate and independent nations.
After 1898, Latin American lawyers and intellectuals reinterpreted the Monroe doctrine in terms of multilateralism and non-intervention.
In 1933, under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the U.S. went along with the new reinterpretation, especially in terms of the Organization of American States.Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin (; Russian:   ; IPA: [vdimr vdimrvt putn]; born 7 October 1952) is the current President of Russia, holding the office since 7 May 2012.
He was Prime Minister from 1999 to 2000, President from 2000 to 2008, and again Prime Minister from 2008 to 2012.
During his second term as Prime Minister, he was the Chairman of the ruling United Russia party.
Born in Leningrad, then part of the Soviet Union, Putin studied law at the Saint Petersburg State University, graduating in 1975.
Putin was a KGB foreign intelligence officer for 16 years, rising to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel before retiring in 1991 to enter politics in Saint Petersburg.
He moved to Moscow in 1996 and joined President Boris Yeltsin's administration, rising quickly through the ranks and becoming Acting President on 31 December 1999, when Yeltsin resigned.
Putin won the subsequent 2000 presidential election by a 53% to 30% margin, thus avoiding a runoff with his Communist Party of the Russian Federation opponent, Gennady Zyuganov.
He was re-elected President in 2004 with 72% of the vote.
During Putin's first presidency, the Russian economy grew for eight straight years, and GDP measured in purchasing power increased by 72%.
The growth was a result of the 2000s commodities boom, high oil prices, and prudent economic and fiscal policies.
Because of constitutionally mandated term limits, Putin was ineligible to run for a third consecutive presidential term in 2008.
The 2008 presidential election was won by Dmitry Medvedev, who appointed Putin Prime Minister, beginning what has been called a period of "tandemocracy".
In September 2011, after presidential terms were extended from four to six years, Putin announced he would seek a third term as president.
He won the March 2012 presidential election with 64% of the vote, a result which aligned with pre-election polling.
Falling oil prices coupled with international sanctions imposed at the beginning of 2014 after Russia's annexation of Crimea and military intervention in Eastern Ukraine led to GDP shrinking by 3.7% in 2015, though the Russian economy rebounded in 2016 with 0.3% GDP growth and is officially out of the recession.
Under Putin's leadership, Russia has scored poorly in Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index, and experienced democratic backsliding according to both the Economist Intelligence Unit's Democracy Index and Freedom House's Freedom in the World index.
Putin has enjoyed high domestic approval ratings during his career, and received extensive international attention as one of the world's most powerful leaders.
U.S. intelligence agencies have accused him of launching an influence campaign against Hillary Clinton in the 2016 United States presidential election.The Ku Klux Klan (pronounced ), commonly called the KKK or simply the Klan, is the name of three distinct movements in the United States that have advocated extremist reactionary positions such as white supremacy, white nationalism, anti-immigration andespecially in later iterationsNordicism, anti-Catholicism and antisemitism.
Historically, the KKK used terrorismboth physical assault and murderagainst groups or individuals whom they opposed.
All three movements have called for the "purification" of American society and all are considered right-wing extremist organizations.
The first Klan flourished in the Southern United States in the late 1860s, then died out by the early 1870s.
It sought to overthrow the Republican state governments in the South during the Reconstruction Era, especially by using violence against African American leaders.
With numerous chapters across the South, it was suppressed around 1871, through federal law enforcement.
Members made their own, often colorful, costumes: robes, masks and conical hats, designed to be terrifying and to hide their identities.
The second group was founded in the South in 1915 and it flourished nationwide in the early and mid-1920s, including urban areas of the Midwest and West.
Taking inspiration from the film Birth of a Nation, which mythologized the founding of the first Klan, it employed marketing techniques and a popular fraternal organization structure.
Rooted in local Protestant communities, it sought to maintain white supremacy, often took a pro-prohibition stance, and it opposed Catholics and Jews, while also stressing its opposition to the Catholic Church at a time of high immigration from mostly Catholic nations of southern and eastern Europe.
This second organization adopted a standard white costume and used code words which were similar to those used by the first Klan, while adding cross burnings and mass parades to intimidate others.
It rapidly declined in the later half of the 1920s.
The third and current manifestation of the KKK emerged after WWII, in the form of localized and isolated groups that use the KKK name.
They have focused on opposition to the Civil Rights Movement, often using violence and murder to suppress activists.
It is classified as a hate group by the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center.
As of 2016, the Anti-Defamation League puts total Klan membership nationwide at around 3,000, while the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) puts it at 6,000 members total.
The second and third incarnations of the Ku Klux Klan made frequent references to America's "Anglo-Saxon" blood, hearkening back to 19th-century nativism.
Although members of the KKK swear to uphold Christian morality, virtually every Christian denomination has officially denounced the KKK.
Democracy (Greek: , dmokrata literally "rule of the people"), in modern usage, is a system of government in which the citizens exercise power directly or elect representatives from among themselves to form a governing body, such as a parliament.
Democracy is sometimes referred to as "rule of the majority".
Democracy is a system of processing conflicts in which outcomes depend on what participants do, but no single force controls what occurs and its outcomes.
The uncertainty of outcomes is inherent in democracy, which makes all forces struggle repeatedly for the realization of their interests, being the devolution of power from a group of people to a set of rules.
Western democracy, as distinct from that which existed in pre-modern societies, is generally considered to have originated in city states such as Classical Athens and the Roman Republic, where various schemes and degrees of enfranchisement of the free male population were observed before the form disappeared in the West at the beginning of late antiquity.
The English word dates to the 16th century, from the older Middle French and Middle Latin equivalents.
According to political scientist Larry Diamond, democracy consists of four key elements: (a) A political system for choosing and replacing the government through free and fair elections; (b) The active participation of the people, as citizens, in politics and civic life; (c) Protection of the human rights of all citizens, and (d) A rule of law, in which the laws and procedures apply equally to all citizens.
In the 5th century BC, to denote the political systems then existing in Greek city-states, notably Athens, the term is an antonym to aristocracy (, aristokrata), meaning "rule of an elite".
While theoretically these definitions are in opposition, in practice the distinction has been blurred historically.
The political system of Classical Athens, for example, granted democratic citizenship to free men and excluded slaves and women from political participation.
In 1906, Finland became the first government to herald a more inclusive democracy at the national level.
In virtually all democratic governments throughout ancient and modern history, democratic citizenship consisted of an elite class until full enfranchisement was won for all adult citizens in most modern democracies through the suffrage movements of the 19th and 20th centuries.
Democracy contrasts with forms of government where power is either held by an individual, as in an absolute monarchy, or where power is held by a small number of individuals, as in an oligarchy.
Nevertheless, these oppositions, inherited from Greek philosophy, are now ambiguous because contemporary governments have mixed democratic, oligarchic, and monarchic elements.
Karl Popper defined democracy in contrast to dictatorship or tyranny, thus focusing on opportunities for the people to control their leaders and to oust them without the need for a revolution.The Republican Party, commonly referred to as the GOP (abbreviation for Grand Old Party), is one of the two major contemporary political parties in the United States, the other being its historic rival, the Democratic Party.
The party is named after republicanism, the dominant value during the American Revolution.
Founded by anti-slavery activists, economic modernizers, ex-Whigs, and ex-Free Soilers in 1854, the Republicans dominated politics nationally and in the majority of northern states for most of the period between 1860 and 1932.
The party has won 24 of the last 40 U.S. presidential elections and there have been a total of 19 Republican presidents, the most from any one party.
The first was 16th president Abraham Lincoln, who served from 1861 until his assassination in 1865, and the most recent being 45th and current president Donald Trump, who took office on January 20, 2017.
The Republican Party's current ideology is American conservatism, which contrasts with the Democrats' more progressive platform (also called modern liberalism).
Its platform involves support for free market capitalism, free enterprise, fiscal conservatism, a strong national defense, deregulation, and restrictions on labor unions.
In addition to advocating for conservative economic policies, the Republican Party is socially conservative, and seeks to uphold traditional values based largely on Judeo-Christian ethics.
The GOP was strongly committed to protectionism and tariffs from its founding until the 1930s, when it was based in the industrial Northeast and Midwest.
Since 1952 there has been a reversal against protectionism and the party's core support since the 1990s comes chiefly from the South, the Great Plains, the Mountain States and rural districts in the North, as well as from conservative Catholics, Mormons, and Evangelicals nationwide.
As of 2017, the Republican Party was at its strongest position politically since 1928.
In addition to holding the Presidency (Donald Trump) it controls majorities in both the House of Representatives and the Senate.
The party also holds a majority of governorships (34/50) and state legislatures (full control of 32/50, split control of six others).The Democratic Party is one of the two major contemporary political parties in the United States, along with the Republican Party.
Tracing its heritage back to Thomas Jefferson and James Madison's Democratic-Republican Party, the modern-day Democratic Party was founded around 1828 by supporters of Andrew Jackson, making it the world's oldest political party.
The Democrats' dominant worldview was once social conservatism and economic liberalism, whileespecially in the rural Southpopulism was its leading characteristic.
In 1912, Theodore Roosevelt ran as a third-party candidate in the Progressive ("Bull Moose") Party, leading to a switch of political platforms between the Democratic and Republican Party and Woodrow Wilson being elected as the first fiscally progressive Democrat.
Since Franklin D. Roosevelt and his New Deal coalition in the 1930s, the Democratic Party has also promoted a social-liberal platform, supporting social justice.
Today, the House Democratic caucus is composed mostly of progressives and centrists, with a smaller minority of conservative Democrats.
The party's philosophy of modern liberalism advocates social and economic equality, along with the welfare state.
It seeks to provide government intervention and regulation in the economy.
These interventions, such as the introduction of social programs, support for labor unions, affordable college tuitions, moves toward universal health care and equal opportunity, consumer protection, and environmental protection form the core of the party's economic policy.
The party has united with smaller liberal regional parties throughout the country, such as the FarmerLabor Party in Minnesota and the Nonpartisan League in North Dakota.
Well into the 20th century, the party had conservative pro-business and southern conservative-populist anti-business wings.
The New Deal Coalition of 19321964 attracted strong support from voters of recent European extractionmany of whom were Catholics based in the cities.
After Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal of the 1930s, the pro-business wing withered outside the South.
After the racial turmoil of the 1960s, most southern whites and many northern Catholics moved into the Republican Party at the presidential level.
The once-powerful labor union element became smaller and less supportive after the 1970s.
White Evangelicals and Southerners became heavily Republican at the state and local level in the 1990s.
Racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. such as Jewish Americans, Hispanic Americans, Arabic Americans, and African Americans, tend to support the Democratic Party much more than they support the rival Republican Party (GOP), giving the Democratic Party its current membership lead over the Republicans.
Fifteen Democrats have served as president under 16 administrations: the first was seventh president Andrew Jackson, who served from 1829 to 1837; Grover Cleveland served two nonconsecutive terms from 1885 to 1889 and 1893 to 1897, and is thus counted twice (as the 22nd and 24th president).
The most recent was the 44th president Barack Obama, who held the office from 2009 to 2017.
In the 115th Congress, following the 2016 elections, Democrats have become the opposition party, holding a minority of seats in both the House of Representatives and the Senate.
The party also holds a minority of governorships (15/50) and state legislatures (full control of 12/50, split control of six others), though they do control the mayoralty of cities such as New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston, and Washington, D.C.Socrates (; Greek:  [skrts], Skrts; 470/469  399 BC) was a classical Greek (Athenian) philosopher credited as one of the founders of Western philosophy.
He is an enigmatic figure known chiefly through the accounts of classical writers, especially the writings of his students Plato and Xenophon and the plays of his contemporary Aristophanes.
Plato's dialogues are among the most comprehensive accounts of Socrates to survive from antiquity, though it is unclear the degree to which Socrates himself is "hidden behind his 'best disciple', Plato".
Through his portrayal in Plato's dialogues, Socrates has become renowned for his contribution to the field of ethics, and it is this Platonic Socrates who lends his name to the concepts of Socratic irony and the Socratic method, or elenchus.
The latter remains a commonly used tool in a wide range of discussions, and is a type of pedagogy in which a series of questions is asked not only to draw individual answers, but also to encourage fundamental insight into the issue at hand.
Plato's Socrates also made important and lasting contributions to the field of epistemology, and his ideologies and approach have proven a strong foundation for much Western philosophy that has followed.Plato (; Greek:  Pltn, pronounced [pl.tn] in Classical Attic; 428/427 or 424/423  348/347 BC) was a philosopher in Classical Greece and the founder of the Academy in Athens, the first institution of higher learning in the Western world.
He is widely considered the most pivotal figure in the development of philosophy, especially the Western tradition.
Unlike nearly all of his philosophical contemporaries, Plato's entire work is believed to have survived intact for over 2,400 years.
Others believe that the oldest extant manuscript dates to around AD 895, 1100 years after Plato's death.
This makes it difficult to know exactly what Plato wrote.
Along with his teacher, Socrates, and his most famous student, Aristotle, Plato laid the very foundations of Western philosophy and science.
Alfred North Whitehead once noted: "the safest general characterization of the European philosophical tradition is that it consists of a series of footnotes to Plato." In addition to being a foundational figure for Western science, philosophy, and mathematics, Plato has also often been cited as one of the founders of Western religion and spirituality.
Plato's influence on Christianity is often thought to be mediated by his major influence on Saint Augustine of Hippo, one of the most important philosophers and theologians in the foundation of the Western thought.
In the 19th century, the philosopher Nietzsche called Christianity "Platonism for the people".
Numenius of Apamea viewed this differently, he called Plato the Hellenic Moses.
This would justify the superiority of Christianity over Hellenism because Moses predates Platothus the original source of this wisdom is the root of Christianity and not Hellenistic culture.
Plato was the innovator of the written dialogue and dialectic forms in philosophy.
Plato appears to have been the founder of Western political philosophy, with his Republic, and Laws among other dialogues, providing some of the earliest extant treatments of political questions from a philosophical perspective.
Plato's own most decisive philosophical influences are usually thought to have been Socrates, Parmenides, Heraclitus and Pythagoras, although few of his predecessors' works remain extant and much of what we know about these figures today derives from Plato himself.
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy describes Plato as "...one of the most dazzling writers in the Western literary tradition and one of the most penetrating, wide-ranging, and influential authors in the history of philosophy.
He was not the first thinker or writer to whom the word philosopher should be applied.
But he was so self-conscious about how philosophy should be conceived, and what its scope and ambitions properly are, and he so transformed the intellectual currents with which he grappled, that the subject of philosophy, as it is often conceiveda rigorous and systematic examination of ethical, political, metaphysical, and epistemological issues, armed with a distinctive methodcan be called his invention.
Few other authors in the history of Western philosophy approximate him in depth and range: perhaps only Aristotle (who studied with him), Aquinas and Kant would be generally agreed to be of the same rank."Sigmund Freud ( FROYD; German: [zikmnt ft]; born Sigismund Schlomo Freud; 6 May 1856  23 September 1939) was an Austrian neurologist and the founder of psychoanalysis, a clinical method for treating psychopathology through dialogue between a patient and a psychoanalyst.
Freud was born to Galician Jewish parents in the Moravian town of Freiberg, in the Austrian Empire.
He qualified as a doctor of medicine in 1881 at the University of Vienna.
Upon completing his habilitation in 1885, he was appointed a docent in neuropathology and became an affiliated professor in 1902.
Freud lived and worked in Vienna, having set up his clinical practice there in 1886.
In 1938 Freud left Austria to escape the Nazis.
He died in exile in the United Kingdom in 1939.
In creating psychoanalysis, Freud developed therapeutic techniques such as the use of free association and discovered transference, establishing its central role in the analytic process.
Freud's redefinition of sexuality to include its infantile forms led him to formulate the Oedipus complex as the central tenet of psychoanalytical theory.
His analysis of dreams as wish-fulfillments provided him with models for the clinical analysis of symptom formation and the underlying mechanisms of repression.
On this basis Freud elaborated his theory of the unconscious and went on to develop a model of psychic structure comprising id, ego and super-ego.
Freud postulated the existence of libido, an energy with which mental processes and structures are invested and which generates erotic attachments, and a death drive, the source of compulsive repetition, hate, aggression and neurotic guilt.
In his later work Freud developed a wide-ranging interpretation and critique of religion and culture.
Though in overall decline as a diagnostic and clinical practice, psychoanalysis remains influential within psychology, psychiatry, and psychotherapy, and across the humanities.
As such, it continues to generate extensive and highly contested debate with regard to its therapeutic efficacy, its scientific status, and whether it advances or is detrimental to the feminist cause.
Nonetheless, Freud's work has suffused contemporary Western thought and popular culture.
In the words of W. H. Auden's 1940 poetic tribute, by the time of Freud's death, he had become "a whole climate of opinion / under whom we conduct our different lives."A mental breakdown (also known as a nervous breakdown) is an acute, time-limited mental disorder that manifests primarily as severe stress-induced depression, anxiety, or dissociation in a previously functional individual, to the extent that they are no longer able to function on a day-to-day basis until the disorder is resolved.
A nervous breakdown is defined by its temporary nature, and often closely tied to psychological burnout, severe overwork, sleep deprivation, and similar stressors, which may combine to temporarily overwhelm an individual with otherwise sound mental functions.Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental disorder that can develop after a person is exposed to a traumatic event, such as sexual assault, warfare, traffic collisions, or other threats on a person's life.
Symptoms may include disturbing thoughts, feelings, or dreams related to the events, mental or physical distress to trauma-related cues, attempts to avoid trauma-related cues, alterations in how a person thinks and feels, and an increase in the fight-or-flight response.
These symptoms last for more than a month after the event.
Young children are less likely to show distress but instead may express their memories through play.
A person with PTSD is at a higher risk for suicide and intentional self-harm.
Most people who have experienced a traumatic event will not develop PTSD.
People who experience interpersonal trauma (for example rape or child abuse) are more likely to develop PTSD, as compared to people who experience non-assault based trauma such as accidents and natural disasters.
About half of people develop PTSD following rape.
Children are less likely than adults to develop PTSD after trauma, especially if they are under ten years of age.
Diagnosis is based on the presence of specific symptoms following a traumatic event.
Prevention may be possible when therapy is targeted at those with early symptoms but is not effective when carried out among all people following trauma.
The main treatments for people with PTSD are counselling and medication.
A number of different types of therapy may be useful.
This may occur one-on-one or in a group.
Antidepressants of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor type are the first-line medications for PTSD and result in benefit in about half of people.
These benefits are less than those seen with therapy.
It is unclear if using medications and therapy together has greater benefit.
Other medications do not have enough evidence to support their use and in the case of benzodiazepines may worsen outcomes.
In the United States about 3.5% of adults have PTSD in a given year, and 9% of people develop it at some point in their life.
In much of the rest of the world, rates during a given year are between 0.5% and 1%.
Higher rates may occur in regions of armed conflict.
It is more common in women than men.
Symptoms of trauma-related mental disorders have been documented since at least the time of the ancient Greeks.
During the World Wars study increased and it was known under various terms including "shell shock" and "combat neurosis".
The term "posttraumatic stress disorder" came into use in the 1970s in large part due to the diagnoses of U.S.
military veterans of the Vietnam War.
It was officially recognized by the American Psychiatric Association in 1980 in the third edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III).In political and social sciences, communism (from Latin communis, "common, universal") is the philosophical, social, political and economic ideology and movement whose ultimate goal is the establishment of the communist society, which is a socioeconomic order structured upon the common ownership of the means of production and the absence of social classes, money and the state.
Communism includes a variety of schools of thought, which broadly include Marxism, anarchism (anarchist communism) and the political ideologies grouped around both.
All of these share the analysis that the current order of society stems from its economic system, capitalism; that in this system there are two major social classes: the working classwho must work to survive and who make up the majority within societyand the capitalist classa minority who derives profit from employing the working class, through private ownership of the means of productionand that conflict between these two classes will trigger a revolution.
The revolution will in turn establish social ownership of the means of production, which according to this analysis is the primary element in the transformation of society towards communism.
Criticism of communism can be roughly divided into those concerning themselves with the practical aspects of 20th century communist states and those concerning themselves with communist principles and theory.A communist party is a political party that advocates the application of the social and economic principles of communism through state policy.
The name originates from the 1848 tract Manifesto of the Communist Party by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.
According to leninism, a Communist party is the vanguard party of the working class (proletariat), whether ruling or non-ruling, but when such a party is in power in a specific country, the party is said to be the highest authority of the dictatorship of the proletariat.
Vladimir Lenin's theories on the role of a Communist party were developed as the early 20th-century Russian social democracy divided into Bolshevik (meaning "of the majority") and Menshevik (meaning "of the minority") factions.
Lenin, leader of the Bolsheviks, argued that a revolutionary party should be a small vanguard party with a centralized political command and a strict cadre policy; the Menshevik faction, however, argued that the party should be a broad-based mass movement.
The Bolshevik party, which eventually became the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, took power in Russia after the October Revolution in 1917.
With the creation of the Communist International, the Leninist concept of party building was copied by emerging Communist parties worldwide.
The Chinese Communist Party is the world's largest political party, holding nearly 78 million members at the end of 2009 which constitutes about 5.6% of the total population of mainland China.
Communist parties are illegal in Estonia, Indonesia, Iran, Latvia, Lithuania, Myanmar, Poland, Romania, South Korea, Ukraine, Georgia and Hungary.Fascism  is a form of radical authoritarian nationalism, characterized by dictatorial power, forcible suppression of opposition and control of industry and commerce that came to prominence in early 20th-century Europe.
The first fascist movements emerged in Italy during World War I before it spread to other European countries.
Opposed to liberalism, Marxism and anarchism, fascism is usually placed on the far-right within the traditional leftright spectrum.
Fascists saw World War I as a revolution that brought massive changes to the nature of war, society, the state and technology.
The advent of total war and the total mass mobilization of society had broken down the distinction between civilians and combatants.
A "military citizenship" arose in which all citizens were involved with the military in some manner during the war.
The war had resulted in the rise of a powerful state capable of mobilizing millions of people to serve on the front lines and providing economic production and logistics to support them, as well as having unprecedented authority to intervene in the lives of citizens.
Fascists believe that liberal democracy is obsolete and they regard the complete mobilization of society under a totalitarian one-party state as necessary to prepare a nation for armed conflict and to respond effectively to economic difficulties.
Such a state is led by a strong leadersuch as a dictator and a martial government composed of the members of the governing fascist partyto forge national unity and maintain a stable and orderly society.
Fascism rejects assertions that violence is automatically negative in nature and views political violence, war and imperialism as means that can achieve national rejuvenation.
Fascists advocate a mixed economy, with the principal goal of achieving autarky through protectionist and interventionist economic policies.
Since the end of World War II in 1945, few parties have openly described themselves as fascist and the term is instead now usually used pejoratively by political opponents.
The descriptions neo-fascist or post-fascist are sometimes applied more formally to describe parties of the far-right with ideologies similar to, or rooted in, 20th century fascist movements.The politics of the People's Republic of China takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential socialist republic run by a single party, the Communist Party of China.
State power within the People's Republic of China (PRC) is exercised through the Communist Party, the Central People's Government and their provincial and local representation.
The Communist Party of China uses Internal Reference to manage and monitor internal disagreements among the people of People's Republic of China.
Document Number Nine was circulated among the Chinese Communist Party in 2013 by XiLi Administration to tighten control of the ideological sphere in China to ensure the supreme leadership of the Communist State will not be challenged by Western influences.
Under the dual leadership system, each local Bureau or office is under the coequal authority of the local leader and the leader of the corresponding office, bureau or ministry at the next higher level.
People's Congress members at the county level are elected by voters.
These county level People's Congresses have the responsibility of oversight of local government, and elect members to the Provincial (or Municipal in the case of independent municipalities) People's Congress.
The Provincial People's Congress in turn elects members to the National People's Congress that meets each year in March in Beijing.
The ruling Communist Party committee at each level plays a large role in the selection of appropriate candidates for election to the local congress and to the higher levels.
The President of China is the titular head of state, serving as the ceremonial figurehead under National People's Congress.
The Premier of China is the head of government, presiding over the State Council composed of four vice premiers and the heads of ministries and commissions.
As a one-party state, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China holds ultimate power and authority over state and government.
The offices of President, General Secretary, and Chairman of the Central Military Commission have been held simultaneously by one individual since 1993, granting the individual de jure and de facto power over the country.
China's population, geographical vastness, and social diversity frustrate attempts to rule from Beijing.
Economic reform during the 1980s and the devolution of much central government decision making, combined with the strong interest of local Communist Party officials in enriching themselves, has made it increasingly difficult for the central government to assert its authority.
Political power has become much less personal and more institutionally based than it was during the first forty years of the PRC.
For example, Deng Xiaoping was never the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, President, or Premier of China, but was the leader of China for a decade.
Today the authority of China's leaders is much more tied to their institutional base.
The incident of Hong Kongs Missing Booksellers had alarmed the public that political confrontation of different political cadre in the senior level of the Chinese Communist Party still dominates China's politics.
Central government leaders must increasingly build consensus for new policies among party members, local and regional leaders, influential non-party members, and the population at large.
However, control is often maintained over the larger group through control of information.
The Chinese Communist Party considers China to be in the initial stages of socialism.
Many Chinese and foreign observers see the PRC as in transition from a system of public ownership to one in which private ownership plays an increasingly important role.
Privatization of housing and increasing freedom to make choices about education and employment severely weakened the work unit system that was once the basic cell of Communist Party control over society.
China's complex political, ethnic and ideological mosaic, much less uniform beneath the surface than in the idealized story of the Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China, resists simple categorization.
As the social, cultural, and political as well as economic consequences of market reform become increasingly manifest, tensions between the oldthe way of the comradeand the newthe way of the citizenare sharpening.
Some Chinese scholars such as Zhou Tianyong, the vice director of research of the Central Party School, argue that gradual political reform as well as repression of those pushing for overly rapid change over the next twenty years will be essential if China is to avoid an overly turbulent transition to a middle class dominated polity.
Some Chinese look back to the Cultural Revolution and fear chaos if the Communist Party should lose control due to domestic upheavals and so a robust system of monitoring and control is in place to counter the growing pressure for political change.Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz (American Spanish: [fiel alehando kasto rus]  audio ; August 13, 1926  November 25, 2016) was a Cuban revolutionary and politician who governed the Republic of Cuba as Prime Minister from 1959 to 1976 and then as President from 1976 to 2008.
Politically a MarxistLeninist and Cuban nationalist, Castro also served as the First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba from 1961 until 2011.
Under his administration, Cuba became a one-party communist state, while industry and business were nationalized and state socialist reforms were implemented throughout society.
Born in Birn, Oriente as the son of a wealthy Spanish farmer, Castro adopted leftist anti-imperialist politics while studying law at the University of Havana.
After participating in rebellions against right-wing governments in the Dominican Republic and Colombia, he planned the overthrow of Cuban President Fulgencio Batista, launching a failed attack on the Moncada Barracks in 1953.
After a year's imprisonment, Castro traveled to Mexico where he formed a revolutionary group, the 26th of July Movement, with his brother Ral Castro and Che Guevara.
Returning to Cuba, Castro took a key role in the Cuban Revolution by leading the Movement in a guerrilla war against Batista's forces from the Sierra Maestra.
After Batista's overthrow in 1959, Castro assumed military and political power as Cuba's Prime Minister.
The United States came to oppose Castro's government and unsuccessfully attempted to remove him by assassination, economic blockade and counter-revolution, including the Bay of Pigs Invasion of 1961.
Countering these threats, Castro formed an alliance with the Soviet Union and allowed the Soviets to place nuclear weapons in Cuba, sparking the Cuban Missile Crisisa defining incident of the Cold Warin 1962.
Adopting a MarxistLeninist model of development, Castro converted Cuba into a one-party, socialist state under Communist Party rule, the first in the Western Hemisphere.
Policies introducing central economic planning and expanding healthcare and education were accompanied by state control of the press and the suppression of internal dissent.
Abroad, Castro supported anti-imperialist revolutionary groups, backing the establishment of Marxist governments in Chile, Nicaragua and Grenada, as well as sending troops to aid allies in the Yom Kippur War, Ogaden War and Angolan Civil War.
These actions, coupled with Castro's leadership of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1979 to 1983 and Cuba's medical internationalism, increased Cuba's profile on the world stage.
Following the Soviet Union's dissolution in 1991, Castro led Cuba through the economic downturn of the "Special Period", embracing environmentalist and anti-globalization ideas.
In the 2000s, Castro forged alliances in the Latin American "pink tide"namely with Hugo Chvez's Venezuelaand signed Cuba up to the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas.
In 2006, Castro transferred his responsibilities to Vice President Ral Castro, who was elected to the presidency by the National Assembly in 2008.
The longest-serving non-royal head of state in the 20th and 21st centuries, Castro polarized world opinion.
His supporters view him as a champion of socialism and anti-imperialism whose revolutionary regime advanced economic and social justice while securing Cuba's independence from American imperialism.
Critics view him as a dictator whose administration oversaw human-rights abuses, the exodus of a large number of Cubans and the impoverishment of the country's economy.
Castro was decorated with various international awards and significantly influenced various individuals and groups across the world.An economy (From Greek   "household" and o  "manage") is an area of the production, distribution, or trade, and consumption of goods and services by different agents.
Understood in its broadest sense, 'The economy is defined as a social domain that emphasizes the practices, discourses, and material expressions associated with the production, use, and management of resources'.
Economic agents can be individuals, businesses, organizations, or governments.
Economic transactions occur when two parties agree to the value or price of the transacted good or service, commonly expressed in a certain currency.
Monetary transactions only account for a small part of the economic domain.
Economic activity is spurred by production which uses natural resources, labor, and capital.
It has changed over time due to technology (automation, accelerator of process, reduction of cost functions), innovation (new products, services, processes, new markets, expands markets, diversification of markets, niche markets, increases revenue functions) such as that which produces intellectual property and changes in industrial relations (for example, child labor being replaced in some parts of the world with universal access to education).
A given economy is the result of a set of processes that involves its culture, values, education, technological evolution, history, social organization, political structure and legal systems, as well as its geography, natural resource endowment, and ecology, as main factors.
These factors give context, content, and set the conditions and parameters in which an economy functions.
In other words, the economic domain is a social domain of human practices and transactions.
It does not stand alone.
A market-based economy is where goods and services are produced and exchanged according to demand and supply between participants (economic agents) by barter or a medium of exchange with a credit or debit value accepted within the network, such as a unit of currency.
A command-based economy is where political agents directly control what is produced and how it is sold and distributed.
A green economy is low-carbon, resource efficient, and socially inclusive.
In a green economy, growth in income and employment are driven by public and private investments that reduce carbon emissions and pollution, enhance energy and resource efficiency, and prevent the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services.Economics (UK English: , ; US English: , ) is "a social science concerned chiefly with description and analysis of the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services".
Economics focuses on the behaviour and interactions of economic agents and how economies work.
Microeconomics analyzes basic elements in the economy, including individual agents and markets, their interactions, and the outcomes of interactions.
Individual agents may include, for example, households, firms, buyers, and sellers.
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy (meaning aggregated production, consumption, savings, and investment) and issues affecting it, including unemployment of resources (labour, capital, and land), inflation, economic growth, and the public policies that address these issues (monetary, fiscal, and other policies).
Other broad distinctions within economics include those between positive economics, describing "what is", and normative economics, advocating "what ought to be"; between economic theory and applied economics; between rational and behavioural economics; and between mainstream economics and heterodox economics.Slavery is, in the strictest sense of the term, any system in which principles of property law are applied to people, allowing individuals to own, buy and sell other individuals, as a de jure form of property.
A slave is unable to withdraw unilaterally from such an arrangement and works without remuneration.
Many scholars now use the term chattel slavery to refer to this specific sense of legalised, de jure slavery.
In a broader sense, however, the word slavery may also refer to any situation in which an individual is de facto forced to work against their own will.
Scholars also use the more generic terms such as unfree labour or forced labour to refer to such situations.
However, and especially under slavery in broader senses of the word, slaves may have some rights and protections according to laws or customs.
Slavery began to exist before written history, in many cultures.
A person could become a slave from the time of their birth, capture, or purchase.
While slavery was institutionally recognized by most societies, it has now been outlawed in all recognized countries, the last being Mauritania in 2007.
Nevertheless, there are still more slaves today than at any previous point in history, with an estimated 45 million people being in slavery worldwide.
The most common form of the slave trade is now commonly referred to as human trafficking.
Chattel slavery is also still practiced by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
In other areas, slavery (or unfree labour) continues through practices such as debt bondage, serfdom, domestic servants kept in captivity, certain adoptions in which children are forced to work as slaves, child soldiers, and forced marriage.The American Civil War (commonly known as the "Civil War" in the United States) was fought in the United States from 1861 to 1865.
The result of a long-standing controversy over slavery, war broke out in April 1861, when Confederates attacked Fort Sumter in South Carolina, shortly after Abraham Lincoln was inaugurated.
The nationalists of the Union proclaimed loyalty to the U.S. Constitution.
They faced secessionists of the Confederate States of America, who advocated for states rights to perpetual slavery and its expansion in the Americas.
Among the 34 U.S. states in February 1861, seven Southern slave states individually declared their secession from the U.S.
to form the Confederate States of America, or the South.
The Confederacy grew to include eleven states.
The Confederacy was never diplomatically recognized by the United States government, nor was it recognized by any foreign country (although Britain and France granted it belligerent status).
The states that remained loyal, including the border states where slavery was legal, were known as the Union or the North.
The North and South quickly raised volunteer and conscription armies that fought mostly in the South over four years.
The Union finally won the war when General Robert E. Lee surrendered to General Ulysses S. Grant at the battle of Appomattox, which triggered a series of surrenders by Confederate generals throughout the southern states.
Four years of intense combat left 620,000 to 750,000 soldiers dead, a higher number than the number of American military deaths in all other wars combined.
Much of the South's infrastructure was destroyed, especially the transportation systems.
The Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and 4 million slaves were freed.
The Reconstruction Era (18631877) overlapped and followed the war, with the process of restoring national unity, strengthening the national government, and granting civil rights to freed slaves throughout the country.
The Civil War is the most studied and written about episode in American history.