Donald Trump

Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is the 45th and current President of the United States, in office since January 20, 2017. Before entering politics, he was a businessman and television personality.
Trump was born in the New York City borough of Queens. He earned an economics degree from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. A third-generation businessman, Trump followed in the footsteps of his grandmother Elizabeth and father Fred in running the family real estate company. He served as chairman and president of The Trump Organization from 1971 until January 2017. Upon his inauguration as president, Trump delegated company management to his sons Donald Jr. and Eric. Trump's business career primarily focused on building or renovating office towers, hotels, casinos, and golf courses.
Trump also started several side ventures and branded various products with his name. He is credited as having written or co-written several books (including The Art of the Deal), and produced and hosted The Apprentice television series for 12 years. As of 2017, he was the 544th richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $3.5 billion.
Trump had long expressed interest in politics. He entered the 2016 presidential race as a Republican and defeated sixteen opponents in the primaries. Commentators described his political positions as populist, protectionist, and nationalist. His campaign received extensive free media coverage; many of his public statements were controversial or false. Trump won the general election on November 8, 2016, in a surprise victory against Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton. He became the oldest (by time of inauguration) and wealthiest person ever to assume the presidency, the first without prior military or government service, and the fifth to have won the election despite losing the popular vote. His election and policies have sparked numerous protests.
In domestic policy, Trump has unsuccessfully attempted to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. He appointed Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. He ordered a travel ban on citizens from six Muslim-majority countries, citing security concerns; the ban was partially implemented after several legal challenges. In foreign policy, he withdrew the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Paris Climate Agreement, undid parts of the Cuban Thaw, and ordered missile strikes in Syria in response to the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack. After Trump dismissed FBI Director James Comey, the Justice Department appointed his predecessor Robert Mueller as special counsel to investigate Russia's interference in the presidential election, potential links between Russia and Trump campaign associates, and any related matters.Family of Donald Trump

The family of Donald Trump, the President of the United States, is a prominent American family active in real estate, entertainment, business, and politics. Trump's immediate family circle is the First Family of the United States. They are part of the broader Trump family originating from Germany. Donald Trump has five children (between three wives) and nine grandchildren.Cabinet of Donald Trump

This article lists the members of President Donald Trump's Cabinet. Trump assumed office on January 20, 2017.
The President of the United States has the authority to nominate members of his or her Cabinet to the United States Senate for confirmation under Appointments Clause of the United States Constitution. Before confirmation, a high level career member of an executive department heads this pre-confirmed cabinet on an acting basis. The Cabinet's creation is part of the transition of power following the 2016 United States presidential election.
This page documents the confirmation process for any successful or unsuccessful cabinet nominees of Donald Trump's administration. They are listed in order of creation of the cabinet position (also used as the basis for the United States presidential line of succession).Donald Trump on social media

The presence of Donald Trump on social media has attracted attention worldwide since he joined Twitter in March 2009. He has frequently used Twitter to comment on politicians and celebrities, and he relied on Twitter significantly to communicate during the 2016 United States presidential election. The attention on Trump's Twitter activity has significantly increased since he was sworn in as the 45th President of the United States and continued to post controversial opinions and statements. Many of the assertions made by Trump on his Twitter account have been proven to be false.
Former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said during his tenure that Trump's tweets are "considered official statements by the President of the United States." According to a June 2017 Fox News poll, 70 percent of people say Trump's tweets are hurting his agenda and 17 percent say the tweets are helpful.Donald Trump Jr.

Donald John Trump Jr. (born December 31, 1977) is an American businessman and former reality TV personality. He is the oldest child of the 45th President of the United States, Donald Trump, and his first wife, Ivana.
A fourth generation businessman following in the footsteps of his great-grandmother who founded the company (Elizabeth Trump), grandfather Fred Trump, and father, he currently works alongside his brother Eric as a trustee and executive director of The Trump Organization. The trust was established to oversee all his father's assets during the latter's presidency.
Trump also has been involved in politics, especially since his father's presidential campaign, including facing criticism following the 2017 revelation of a meeting with a Russian lawyer, with the promise of receiving damaging information about Hillary Clinton's campaign in the 2016 presidential election.Presidency of Donald Trump

The presidency of Donald Trump began at noon EST on January 20, 2017, when Donald Trump was inaugurated as 45th President of the United States, succeeding Barack Obama. Trump, the Republican nominee, was a businessman and reality television personality from New York City at the time of his victory in the 2016 presidential election over the Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. His running mate, former Governor Mike Pence of Indiana, took office as the 48th Vice President of the United States on the same day. Trump's term in office is set to end on January 20, 2021, though he is eligible for election to a second term and has declared his intention to run.
As of August 2017, Trump has issued 42 executive orders and 51 presidential memoranda. The executive order 13769 was revoked and replaced by executive order 13780; both orders denied admission to the U.S. of people from several foreign countries and were halted by federal courts until the Supreme Court partially reinstated order 13780. Trump's nominee to the Supreme Court, Neil Gorsuch, was confirmed by the United States Senate on April 7, 2017.Ivana Trump

Ivana Marie Trump (née Zelníčková, Czech pronunciation: [ˈɪvana ˈmarɪjɛ ˈzɛlɲiːtʃkovaː]; February 20, 1949) is a Czech-American businesswoman and former fashion model. She was the first wife of Donald Trump from 1977 until 1992.Political appointments by Donald Trump

This is a list of political appointments made by the 45th President of the United States, Donald Trump.
There are 1,212 presidential appointments which require confirmation by the U.S. Senate and 353 presidential appointments which do not require confirmation. The Washington Post has identified 601 key positions requiring U.S. Senate confirmation. As of October 11, 2017, 142 of Trump's nominees have been confirmed for those key positions, 165 are awaiting confirmation, and 11 have been announced but not yet formally nominated.
All members of the Cabinet require the advice and consent of the United States Senate following appointment by the President prior to taking office. The Vice Presidency is exceptional in that the position requires election to office pursuant to the United States Constitution. Although some are afforded Cabinet-level rank, non-cabinet members within the Executive Office of the President, such as White House Chief of Staff, National Security Advisor, and White House Press Secretary, do not hold constitutionally created positions and most do not require Senate confirmation for appointment.Donald Trump presidential campaign, 2016

The 2016 presidential campaign of Donald Trump, an American businessman, television personality, and author, was formally launched on June 16, 2015, at Trump Tower in New York City. Trump was the Republican nominee for President of the United States in the 2016 election, having won the most state primaries, caucuses, and delegates at the 2016 Republican National Convention. He chose Mike Pence, the sitting Governor of Indiana, as his vice presidential running mate. On November 8, 2016, Trump and Pence were elected president and vice president of the United States.
Trump's populist positions in opposition to illegal immigration and various trade agreements, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, earned him support especially among voters who were male, white, blue-collar and those without college degrees. Some of his remarks were controversial and helped his campaign garner extensive coverage by the mainstream media, trending topics, and social media.
Trump's campaign rallies attracted large crowds, as well as public controversy. Some of the events were marked by incidents of violence between Trump supporters and protesters, mistreatment of some journalists, and disruption by a large group of protesters who effectively shut down a major rally in Chicago. Trump was accused of inciting violence at his rallies.
Trump's disdain for political correctness was a staple theme of his campaign and proved popular among his supporters. Many, including some mainstream commentators and some prominent Republicans, viewed him as appealing to racism, a charge that he "repeatedly and vehemently denies." Trump's most polarizing and widely reported proposals were about issues of immigration and border security, especially his proposed deportation of all illegal immigrants, the proposed construction of a substantial wall on the Mexico–United States border at Mexican expense, his characterizations of many Mexican immigrants as "criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc", and a temporary ban on foreign Muslims entering the U.S. (which he later modified to apply to people originating from countries with a history of terrorism against the United States or its allies).
Opposition to Trump grew during his campaign among both Republicans (who viewed Trump as irrevocably damaging to the party and its chances of winning elections during and after 2016, leading to the coalescence of the Stop Trump movement) and Democrats (who decried Trump's anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim policies, his behavior toward critics, his treatment of the media, and the ethno-nationalist alt-right's support of his campaign because of said policies and his anti-political correctness stance, which many cited to be a factor in the rise of hate crimes and other hate-motivated incidents against ethnic and religious minorities prior to and following Trump's win); although, some conservatives, liberals and independents criticized Republican Congressmembers for prioritizing party loyalty and avoiding alienation of Trump supporters to ensure re-election, over condemning several of Trump's actions. Some critics of Trump (among them Robert Reich, Keith Olbermann and Glenn Beck) had went so far – based on his immigration platforms, his circumvention of democratic norms, his tendencies to vehemently push back against critics (including revoking campaign access to certain members of the press for reporting stories he perceives as negative or critical), and his perceived narcissism – as to call Trump's mental health into question and warn that, if elected, he could put America in danger of either falling into an authoritarian regime or a dictatorship, or endangering its citizens by starting a nuclear war against foreign countries without justifiable provocation.