International Monetary Fund

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is an international organization headquartered in Washington, D.C., of "189 countries working to foster global monetary cooperation, secure financial stability, facilitate international trade, promote high employment and sustainable economic growth, and reduce poverty around the world." Formed in 1944 at the Bretton Woods Conference primarily by the ideas of Harry Dexter White and John Maynard Keynes, it came into formal existence in 1945 with 29 member countries and the goal of reconstructing the international payment system. It now plays a central role in the management of balance of payments difficulties and international financial crises. Countries contribute funds to a pool through a quota system from which countries experiencing balance of payments problems can borrow money. As of 2016, the fund had SDR477 billion (about $668 billion).
Through the fund, and other activities such as the gathering of statistics and analysis, surveillance of its members' economies and the demand for particular policies, the IMF works to improve the economies of its member countries. The organisation's objectives stated in the Articles of Agreement are: to promote international monetary co-operation, international trade, high employment, exchange-rate stability, sustainable economic growth, and making resources available to member countries in financial difficulty.The International Monetary Fund and MalawiMexico and the International Monetary FundInternational monetary systems

International monetary systems are sets of internationally agreed rules, conventions and supporting institutions, that facilitate international trade, cross border investment and generally the reallocation of capital between nation states. They provide means of payment acceptable buyers and sellers of different nationality, including deferred payment. To operate successfully, they need to inspire confidence, to provide sufficient liquidity for fluctuating levels of trade and to provide means by which global imbalances can be corrected. The systems can grow organically as the collective result of numerous individual agreements between international economic factors spread over several decades. Alternatively, they can arise from a single architectural vision as happened at Bretton Woods in 1944.Arab Monetary Fund

The Arab Monetary Fund (AMF) is a regional Arab organization, a working sub-organization of the Arab League. It was founded 1976, and has been operational since 1977.Bretton Woods Conference

The Bretton Woods Conference, formally known as the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference, was the gathering of 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations at the Mount Washington Hotel, situated in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, to regulate the international monetary and financial order after the conclusion of World War II.
The conference was held from July 1–22, 1944. Agreements were signed that, after legislative ratification by member governments, established the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).Venezuela and the International Monetary Fund

The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela was a founding member of the International Monetary Fund in 1946. Venezuela's economy is highly dependent on oil production and exportation. This has led the economy to be prone to rapid changes given the price of oil fluctuates due to changes in demand and other macroeconomic conditions. In 2014, oil prices globally dropped considerably and Venezuela has since dealt with a significant decrease in state revenue. The economy has been contracting each quarter since then. This has caused Venezuela's Central Bank reserves to decline as a way of meeting their financial obligations. A chronic shortage of goods has occurred as well, with necessities such as medical supplies in short supply. Since 2007, Venezuela has not had official financial relations with either the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank when it paid off its debt five years ahead of schedule under Hugo Chávez. However, due to the current crisis and financial difficulties of the current administration the World Bank and IMF have stated their readiness to offer assistance if called upon.Annual Meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group

The IMF and World Bank meet each autumn in what is officially known as the Annual Meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group and each spring in the Spring Meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group. Names of the two groups are alternated each year so a different one has top billing.
The autumn meetings are customarily held in Washington, D.C., United States for two consecutive years, and in another member country in the third year. On the weekend of the autumn meetings the G7 also meets. The 2006 Annual Meetings and their supporting events were held from 11–20 September 2006 at the Suntec Singapore International Convention and Exhibition Centre in Singapore.
Since the mid-1990s, these meetings have centerpoints for anti-globalization movement protests. There have been complete bans on outdoor protests in the 2003 meetings in Dubai, United Arab Emirates as well as the 2006 meeting in Singapore, where only indoor demonstrations within a designated area is permitted. Some argue that such bans are out of safety concerns, while others consider them an effort to curb dissent. These measures has led to retaliatory actions by NGOs who targeted the organisers, as well as the IMF and World Bank for allegedly picking venues which are known to impose such restrictions.Asian Monetary Fund

The Asian Monetary Fund (AMF) was initially proposed by the Japanese government during the 1997 Asian financial crisis at the G7-IMF meetings in Hong Kong during September 20–25, 1997. It was aimed towards securing a regional network funded by Asian countries to overcome current and future economic crisis. During the Asian financial crisis, Asian leaders experienced the incompetence of both regional and international institutions such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and particularly the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Countries such as Indonesia, Republic of Korea, and Thailand had to turn to bailouts from the IMF. However, the strict conditions of the IMF bailouts evoked discontent among Asian countries. This discontent was largely because Asian nations had little leverage on IMF crisis resolution measures despite the IMF being an international organisation. Another source of discontent was due to the financial volatility concerning the US dollar. More specifically it owed to the fixed exchange-rate system that Asian governments adopted throughout the 1990s, in which currency was pegged to the US dollar at rates incompatible with domestic economies. The initial proposal of the AMF stirred conflict between Japanese authorities and the United States.Hong Kong Monetary Authority

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA, Chinese: 香港金融管理局 or 金管局) is Hong Kong's currency board and de facto central bank. It is a government authority founded on 1 April 1993 when the Office of the Exchange Fund and the Office of the Commissioner of Banking merged. The organisation reports directly to the Financial Secretary.